website/data/docs/specification.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Specification'
---

Ensemble defines custom [CRDs](/docs/concepts#custom-resource-definition) that describe all the
things involved in a cluster.

## Cluster

A **Cluster** object describes the database deployment.

```yaml
apiVersion: "ensembleoss.io/v1"
kind: Cluster
metadata:
    name: <name>
spec:
    backend:
        name: <backend>
    replicas: <replicas>
```

### Params:

- name: Name of the cluster.
- backend: Name of the database. It has to match one of the available builtin implementations.
- replicas: Number of replicas for the database. 

In the future, another **config** field will be included to parametrize the nodes in the cluster.

## Resource

A **Resource** object is an entity in the cluster that has a CRUD lifecycle. For example, a user in Rabbitmq
or roles in Postgresql.

Each database implementation creates their own Resources, please check each implementaion to see which
resources are available.

```yaml
apiVersion: "ensembleoss.io/v1"
kind: Resource
metadata:
    name: <name>
spec:
    backend: <backend>
    cluster: <cluster>
    resource: <resource>
    params: <params>
```

### Params:

- name: Name of the resource.
- backend: Name of the database.
- resource: Name of the resource.
- params: a map of config parameters for the resource.

Currently, only a type validation is performed during the **kubectl apply** action. Thus,
if the YAML file includes a wrong Resource name, the object will be created anyway and will fail
silently inside the operator logic. In the future, we will add dynamic webhook validations so that
the operation can fail safer and with more context.

The same logic applies with any arbitrary field in the YAML resources like the **config** field aforementioned.

Commit message:

Feature multi cluster (#18)
* First approach

* Fix CRDs

* Add Dask

website/data/docs/specification.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Specification'
---

Ensemble defines custom [CRDs](/docs/concepts#custom-resource-definition) that describe all the
things involved in a cluster.

## Cluster

A **Cluster** object describes the database deployment.

```yaml
apiVersion: "ensembleoss.io/v1"
kind: Cluster
metadata:
    name: <name>
spec:
    backend:
        name: <backend>
    sets:
    - replicas: <replicas>
```

### Params:

- name: Name of the cluster.
- backend: Name of the database. It has to match one of the available builtin implementations.
- sets: Group of nodes in the cluster with the same characteristics.

In the future, another **config** field will be included to parametrize the nodes in the cluster.

## Resource

A **Resource** object is an entity in the cluster that has a CRUD lifecycle. For example, a user in Rabbitmq
or roles in Postgresql.

Each database implementation creates their own Resources, please check each implementaion to see which
resources are available.

```yaml
apiVersion: "ensembleoss.io/v1"
kind: Resource
metadata:
    name: <name>
spec:
    cluster: <cluster>
    resource: <resource>
    params: <params>
```

### Params:

- name: Name of the resource.
- cluster: Name of the cluster.
- resource: Name of the resource.
- params: a map of config parameters for the resource.

Currently, only a type validation is performed during the **kubectl apply** action. Thus,
if the YAML file includes a wrong Resource name, the object will be created anyway and will fail
silently inside the operator logic. In the future, we will add dynamic webhook validations so that
the operation can fail safer and with more context.

The same logic applies with any arbitrary field in the YAML resources like the **config** field aforementioned.
